Mitsubishi PA-10 arm actuator
=============================

This actuator reads a list of angles for the segments of the
Mitsubishi PA-10 arm and applies them as local rotations.
Angles are expected in radians.

Files 
-----

-  Blender: ``$MORSE_ROOT/data/actuators/pa_10.blend``

   Unlike other actuators, this one also includes the mesh of the arm
   (composed of 6 segments).

-  Python: ``$MORSE_ROOT/src/morse/actuators/pa_10.py``

Local data 
----------

-  **seg0**: (float) rotation for the first segment. Around Z axis.
-  **seg1**: (float) rotation for the second segment. Around Y axis.
-  **seg2**: (float) rotation for the third segment. Around Y axis.
-  **seg3**: (float) rotation for the fourth segment. Around Z axis.
-  **seg4**: (float) rotation for the fifth segment. Around Y axis.
-  **seg5**: (float) rotation for the sixth segment. Around Z axis.

Configurable parameters
-----------------------

-  **speed**: (float) rotation speed for the movements of the segments

Applicable modifiers 
--------------------

No available modifiers

Available services
------------------

- **set_rotation_array**: (service) Receives an array indicating the angle to give
  to each of the segments of the arm. Angles are expected in radians. The length
  of the array should be equal to 6 or less, where any values not specified will
  be considered as 0.0.

    +------------+--------------------+-----------------+
    | Parameters | ``rotation_array`` | array of floats |
    +------------+--------------------+-----------------+

    Parameters: ``(rotation_array)``
